if you saw the last video there's still
Kennecott Copper Mine home of the
largest open pit mine and the largest
landslide in world known world history I
think maybe Mount st. Helens is bigger I
don't know somebody can look that up
anyway they're still digging out their
big bulldozers up there so anyway it is
spring look at him isn't that gorgeous
look at those trees daffodils are
blooming hyacinth is hyacinth in' and
last we left our sprinklers remember I
said to leave these open its open open
open all the way open these are open you
can tell because they're parallel with
the pipe these handles here and these
screws flathead screws are parallel with
the pipe so that means these are all
open and if you remember that lets the
air go down so the water can get out if
it starts to build up so first thing
we're going to do is close these there
we go
see now it's not parallel but they're
perpendicular closed closed closed and
closed and these stay open because we're
going to let the water flow through so
we'll go down the basement I'll show you
what to do down there okay here we are
back underneath the porch next to the
manifold you saw now again a refresher
this bottom part of the pipe work comes
out of the wall is where it comes from
the city splits off that's the house
line you can tell because it has this
regulator here for the house water
pressure and then it comes up and this
one's perpendicular that's where we shut
off the sprinkler line so and right up
here see these things leak remember and
maybe a drip a day but that will pile up
and fill up your pipe again so they
installed this drain and I leave it open
this is open
it's again perpendicular with this pipe
and look how much water we got out of
here
I already emptied this once so this is
one of these the Costco nut containers
so imagine all this and another one full
filling up your pipes that's why so many
people even though they think they
winterized their pipes they have them
crack again because it fills back up
with water and and so anyway always
leave this open to collect the water in
some sort of container and then you'll
never have to worry about your pipes
freezing and replacing one of those
expensive intervals so before you turn
this on if I turn this on right now I'm
going to flood the basement with out of
this hose so I turn this there we go now
this is closed now I can turn this on
and we're going to hear you can hear all
the water going into the pipe hear that
it should stop once the pipes fill up
all right you hear that noise oh okay
the pipes are full now let's go outside
and take a look here where the sprinkler
box and my brother-in-law had trouble
with his you couldn't get this to work
so he had to disconnect the power plug
back in it reset itself so if that's
your problem try that anyway you can go
here if you have one of these settings
it says test all valves or you can just
push manual advanced just to make sure
everything works and it's good to see
that you don't have any cracked or
broken sprinklers
instead of just assuming so and flooding
your lawn at the middle of the night so
I'm going to go to test all valves and
hit go and it's going to do the drippers
for two minutes I think and then switch
to the next one huh
turn it on okay they they're coming
alright so sprinklers are working great
and I will leave you with some images of
spring yes gorgeous nectarine tree you
love it
tulips are almost blooming raspberries
are getting ready while tree is looking
good
cherry tree has blossoms unimpressive
flowers on a peach tree pot features are
great pear trees come underline same
with the Japanese maple